Feature/guide/fwe chapter 4 (#6659)
dart-lang/site-www: src/content/get-started/packages-libs.md

---
title: Organizing Dart code with packages and libraries
short-title: Packages and libraries
description: >-
  Learn how to organize your Dart code into reusable libraries and packages.
prevpage:
  url: /get-started/async
  title: Introduction to async and HTTP
nextpage:
  url: /get-started
  title: Object oriented dart
---

In this chapter, you'll learn how to refactor your Dart code into
reusable components by creating a separate package for handling
command-line arguments. This involves understanding Dart libraries,
`export` statements, and how to structure your project for better
organization and maintainability. This refactoring will set the stage
for building a more advanced command-line application in the next part

> of the guide.

Reviewer: Perhaps we should also explain the goal here: "Eventually, you'll have written three packages: one with wikipedia logic, the `command_runner` package that acts a framework for CLI apps, and then the client CLI app, dartpedia, that will import both of them."

> of the guide.

Author: Great points. I tried to bake it into 1 paragraph so we can keep intro sections concise.

:::secondary What you'll learn

* Create new Dart packages using `dart create -t package`.
* Structure your project to include local packages.
* Add local packages as dependencies using the `path` option
  in `pubspec.yaml`.
* Use `export` statements to make library declarations available
  to other packages.
* Import and use classes from your new package in your `dartpedia`
  application.

> * Understand the benefits of refactoring code into reusable
>   packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Understand the benefits of separating code into packages.
```

:::

## Prerequisites

* Completion of Chapter 3, which covered asynchronous programming
  and HTTP requests.

> * Basic understanding of code organization principles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

I don't think this is necessary.

## Tasks

In this chapter, you'll be refactoring the existing `dartpedia` CLI application by
extracting the command-line argument parsing logic into a separate package
called `command_runner`. This will improve the structure of your project,

> making it more modular and maintainable.

Reviewer: It's important that we explicitly explain that there is a "real" package called [`args`](https://pub.dev/packages/args), maintained by the Dart team, that has a class called `CommandRunner` that this tutorial implements for demo purposes, but in a "real project", you should use the `args` package when building a CLI app. 

If this tutorial just used the args package, it would be a _very_ short tutorial.

    as `dartpedia` in Chapter 1, this would be the `dartpedia` directory.
2.  Run the following command in your terminal:

    ```bash
    dart create -t package command_runner
    ```

    This command creates a new directory named `command_runner` with the
    basic structure of a Dart package. You should now see a new folder
    `command_runner` in your project root, alongside `cli`.

### Task 2: Implement the `CommandRunner` class

Now that you have created the `command_runner` package, you need to add
a placeholder class that will eventually handle the command-line argument
parsing logic.

1.  Open the `command_runner/lib/command_runner.dart` file. Remove any
    existing placeholder code and add the following:

    ```dart
    /// A simple command runner to handle command-line arguments.
    ///
    /// More extensive documentation for this library goes here.
    library;

    export 'src/command_runner_base.dart';
    // TODO: Export any other libraries intended for clients of this package.
    ```
    * `library;`: Declares this file as a library.
    * `export 'src/command_runner_base.dart';`: This line is crucial. It makes

>         declarations from `command_runner_base.dart` (and anything else declared

Reviewer: I think the text in the parenthesis is redundant?

    :::

## Review

In this chapter, you learned about:

* Creating Dart packages using `dart create -t package`.
* Using `export` statements to make declarations from one library available
    in another.
* Adding local packages as dependencies using the `path` option in
    `pubspec.yaml`.
* Importing packages into your Dart code using `import` statements.
* Refactoring code to improve organization and maintainability, including making `main` `async` to correctly `await` asynchronous operations.

## Quiz

**Question 1:** What is the purpose of the `export` statement in a Dart library?

* A) To hide declarations from other libraries.
* B) To make declarations available to other libraries.
* C) To specify the version of the Dart SDK required by the library.
* D) To define the entry point of the library.

**Question 2:** How do you add a local package as a dependency in `pubspec.yaml`?

* A) By specifying the package name and version.
* B) By specifying the package name and the path to the package.
* C) By using the `git` option and specifying the URL of the Git repository.
* D) By using the `hosted` option and specifying the URL of the package server.

> **Question 3:** What command do you use to create a new Dart package?

Reviewer: I'd just remove this, it's a little _too_ obvious

command-line application in future chapters, which will integrate specialized
packages for Wikipedia logic and a robust `command_runner` framework. This
chapter helps you understand Dart libraries, export statements, and how to
structure your project for better organization and maintainability.

:::secondary What you'll learn

* Create new Dart packages using `dart create -t package`.
* Structure your project to include local packages.
* Add local packages as dependencies using the `path` option in `pubspec.yaml`.
* Use `export` statements to make library declarations available to other
  packages.
* Import and use classes from your new package in your `dartpedia` application.
* Recognize the benefits of separating code into packages.

:::

## Prerequisites

* Completion of Chapter 3, which covered asynchronous programming and HTTP
  requests.

## Tasks

In this chapter, you'll be refactoring the existing `dartpedia` CLI application
by extracting the command-line argument parsing logic into a separate package
called `command_runner`. This will improve the structure of your project, making
it more modular and maintainable.

> :::note
> There is a `command_runner` class that is part of the officially maintained
> [`args` package](https://pub.dev/packages/args). For this tutorial we're
> building our own `command_runner` class, but in a real project you would likely
> use the class from `args`.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
There is a `CommandRunner` class that is part of the officially maintained
[`args` package](https://pub.dev/packages/args). For this tutorial we're
building our own `CommandRunner` class, but in a real project you would likely
use the `args` package to build a CLI application.
:::
```

### Task 1: Create the command_runner package

First, you'll create a new Dart package to house the command-line argument
parsing logic.

1.  Navigate to the root directory of your project (`/dartpedia`).
2.  Run the following command in your terminal:

    ```bash
    dart create -t package command_runner
    ```

    This command creates a new directory named `command_runner` with the basic
    structure of a Dart package. You should now see a new folder
    `command_runner` in your project root, alongside `cli`.

### Task 2: Implement the CommandRunner class

Now that you have created the `command_runner` package, you need to add a
placeholder class that will eventually handle the command-line argument parsing
logic.

1.  Open the `command_runner/lib/command_runner.dart` file. Remove any existing
    placeholder code and add the following:

    ```dart
    /// A simple command runner to handle command-line arguments.
    ///
    /// More extensive documentation for this library goes here.
    library;

    export 'src/command_runner_base.dart';
    // TODO: Export any other libraries intended for clients of this package.
    ```

    Highlights from the preceding code:

>     * `library;`: Declares this file as a library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `library;`: Declares this file as a library, which helps define the boundaries and public interface of a reusable unit of Dart code.
```
